Activities that can be employed as nontariff barriers include customs and entry procedures. Mostly they can influence the level of complication and time needed to import the goods. They can be analysed from the point of: classification, valuation, documentation, License, Inspection, and Health and safety regulations. 
Classification of a product might be different in countries as a result of decisions of customs officers at the time of entry. The duty status for the goods depends on the classification. The decision can be later changed and the overpaid or unpaid duties returned and charged accordingly, but the process takes time and requires a decent amount of documents and explanations as a proof for changes. 
Product valuation is the next important stage of entry procedures, because depending on it the amount of all tariffs will be levied. Valuation is the duty of customs appraiser and can be done in different ways, depending on interpretation of the value of the product. Products value can be constructed in, at least, several ways.
Documentation might present another problem at the customs control. Depending on a country, the good are entering, different documents might be needed and they can be complicated for unprepared company. Without proper papers they good might not be cleared through the customs and getting them delivered to the truck waiting at the boarder might cause enormous delays. For unprepared companies long and complicated documents, required by the customs office of a country, are the cause of slow product clearance, which might, in case of transport of living animals, plants or food, mean huge losses, if the goods start going bad or die.
Licenses and permits are required for imports of some goods. In some countries, for example in India, all imported goods require licenses. Depending on the country the legalities connected to obtaining an import license can vary. Some countries try to simplify the process, while others create harder to breach trade barriers by complicating it.
Inspections are another integral part of obtaining customs clearance. It is meant to determine the quality and quantity of goods as well as control if they fulfil other customs and entry procedures. During the inspection the goods are classifies and valued for the tariff purposes. It is also meant to reveal if the goods are the same as stated in the documents and if they might require a license or permit of a kind. The goods are also checked if they meet health and safety regulations, and if they will not create a danger for customers on importing market. The prohibited articles are prevented from entering during inspection. All the information about quantity and quality of products, and their description should be provided carefully and accurately. Mistakes will cause only delays and expenses.
Health and safety regulations are meant to protect the public and environment. They apply to agricultural products as well as chemicals, clothing, microwave ovens, different machines and many others. In most cases those regulations are set with the thought of protection against defective products, but it happens that they are used to hinder trade. Countries use safety and health unclearness as an excuse to block the imports of the product.