Country’s financial control can also serve to restrict international barriers. Monetary policies are created and modified to control capital flow and as a result imports limited and local currency protected. There are four forms of financial control described in this research: Exchange control, multiple exchange rates, Prior import deposits and credit restrictions, and Profit remittance restrictions.
Exchange control is method that controls the amount of local currency that might be taken abroad. this method is used, comes from overvaluation of domestic currency and as a effect imports being paid in smaller amounts of currency. Buyers then try to use favourable, cheaper exchange to get items normally more expensive, or even unavailable, in the local currency. Exchange controls can also set limits to the amount and period of time, the exporters, can hold the foreign money from sold goods. The government, by controlling all the forms of the capital outflows of foreign currencies, makes it difficult to obtain imported products or make it harder to obtain them, for example, for higher price.
Multiple exchange rates are another form of exchange control or obstruction to trade. There are two main functions of multiple exchange rates: to strengthen export and imports of chosen products, and to, at the same time, weaken them for other goods. That creates situation, in which there is no single rate for products and industries. Some will benefit from it and some will not, or will even loose. The scope of the operation can be restricted to imports only if needed. Government them sets different rates on chosen imported products, while keeping same level for exports.
Prior import deposits and credit restrictions are barriers which operate by imposing certain financial restrictions on importers. The state might require a prior import deposit that ties up importer’s money and as a result makes his operations harder in the financial aspect. Paying interest for the borrowed money and not being able to use them or to get interest earnings from the state. This is the unfavourable situation in which importer ends up. Credits restrictions are applied only to imports. Exports are able to get credits, often on favourable rates, from the government and cover their international operations, while importers struggle without ability to get loans or financial help from government, and need to borrow from private sector at higher rates.
Profit remittance restrictions are another kind of financial control barrier on trade. Countries allow repatriations of profits, earned by foreign companies, on different levels. Some of them allow it fully – without restrictions, while other set progressive taxes to block the profits earned in domestic operations from being sent to parent organization located abroad. Another type of approach is setting up delays in permissions for profit expatriation, to make the money stay in country as long as possible. Multinational corporations have found many, in most cases legal, ways around this barrier, for example: countertrading, charging subsidiaries with higher prices and fees for the products, and currency swaps with another company.