Government participation in trade
The level of government involvement in trade varies from very passive to most active. We can divide it into three main types: Administrative guidance, Government procurement and state trading, and Subsidies.
Administrative guidance sounds harmless as a name, but can be a really big obstacle to overcome for companies exporting goods to other country. Many governments provide trade consultations to private firms, with an aim of making those companies conform to their guidance. They use the carrot-and-stick approach by utilizing its influence through regulations, recommendations, encouragement, discouragement, or prohibition.
Government procurement and state trading are the ultimate forms of government participation in trade. It is caused by shift of customer, or buyer, role to the state, who now dictates what, when, where, how and how much to buy. Those decision and other commercial operations are controlled directly, by the government, or indirectly by the agencies under its control. These sorts of activities are happening in place of private firms or additionally to them. Such level of government involvement is most common in communistic countries, where the government is responsible for the central planning of the whole economy. 

An international measure against state trading and government procurement was established as the Government Procurement Act, which requires the signatory nations to treat suppliers from other signatory countries equally with domestic suppliers. It means that the foreign government must choose the suppliers regardless of nationality and buy the goods with lowest price and that meet the given specifications in best way. It is also required in the Code that technical specifications must be adopted by purchasing agency towards performance and must be based in international specifications, national technical regulations, or recognized national standards. They also cannot be created, adopted or applied with aim of creating barriers to international trade. 
Subsidies are another method of government involvement into trade. In simple words they are governmental support of domestic producers so they can apply lower prices to their products and be more competitive. This policy is used to recover and develop particular sector, and increase competitive power of domestic producers. This sounds like, earlier mentioned, protectionism. Many other definitions and examples of use of this policy can be found in different sources.
Another type of subsidies is called sheltered profit, which means that a country allows a corporation to shelter its profits from abroad. For example, it happened in U.S.A. in 1971, when the government allowed companies to form Domestic International Sales Corporations (DISCs).