Quotas are a quantity control on imported and exported goods. As import restrictions they generally limit the amount of foreign goods entering the country to specific quantities, and they serve to conserve foreign currency and protect local industry. Export quotas are used by state, for example, to preserve deficient resources. Import quotas, in comparison to tariffs, can be more restrictive and effective because of less options how to deal with them. Comparing further, quotas are less desirable as they do not bring revenue to the state. To avoid these restrictions, some companies, for example, moved their production sites inside the region protected by the barrier or started exporting through different countries. In this research we discuss five types of quotas: absolute, tariff, voluntary, global & bilateral and auctioned, and another method called Local content requirement.
An absolute quota is the most restrictive type of the three. During the quota period, the number of imported goods is limited in absolute terms. It means that once the set number of products has entered the country, no more of these goods can be imported. Quotas can be either global or set on specific country. The most radical absolute quota is a zero quota, more commonly known as embargo, which bans trade of some or all products with set country completely. In some sources quota and embargo are divided with the explanation of the first being used for economical and second for political purposes. In this work such classification is not necessary although information itself is worth knowing.
Tariff quotas (or tariff-rate quotas - TRQs) is a method combining both quota and tariffs. It allows the entry of set number of the quota goods at a normal or reduced duty rate. Excess of the quota might be also imported, but at a higher tariff rate than in bounds of the restrictions. A voluntary quota is a formal agreement between countries or a country and industry, in which there are supply limits specified for products, country and volume. In this work two types of voluntary quotas will be described: voluntary export restraint (VER) and orderly marketing agreement (OMA). VER is a direct agreement between government of importing country and foreign exporting industry, to manage the amount of goods being moved into the domestic market.
Global quotas are established on particular product indifferently of its country of origin. On the other hand, bilateral quotas are imposed on a product dependent upon the country of its origin. Auctioned quotas are quotas sold to the highest bidder by the government to raise revenue. The right to import a set amount of goods is allocated to a company, which offered the best acceptable price. The imports of goods are still restricted but importing country also gains from it. Local content requirement (LCR) is used, as an option, instead of quota restricting the number of goods imported into the country. In LCR the government requires that certain percentage of a good is produced domestically. It can be presented as a percentage of the good or its value. So it can be certain percentage of components used in production of the final product that needs to be domestically produced or certain percentage of the value of the good.