Distribution points: distribution and consumption taxes
There are indirect taxes, which are collected at a particular point of distribution or while purchase or consumption occurs. Those, frequently adjusted at the border, taxes can be divided into: single-stage, value-added, cascade, excise, turnover, and equalization tax. Single-stage sales tax is a tax collected only once in manufacturing and distribution chain, when product is purchased by final consumer. Retailers and wholesalers can make purchases without paying any taxes, by showing the right documents, in U.S.A. it is a sales tax permit.
Value-added tax (VAT) is a multistage, noncumulative tax on consumption. It is charged and needs to be paid on every stage of production and distribution system, but only on the value being added at that stage. When a seller collects the VAT from a buyer, he can deduct the amount of VAT that he already paid while buying the product himself and reemits the balance to the tax office. In EU, upon importation of goods, VAT is collected based on Cost, Insurance & Freight (CIF) value and the duty charged on imported product. Countries are allowed to rebate VAT on exports. It means that VAT, being applied on imports and not on exports, might improve country’s’ trade balance.
Cascade taxes are turnover taxes applied at every point of manufacturing and distribution chain and are charged on the total value of a product, including the taxes that were already paid on earlier stages. Accumulating over the chain taxes mean that the sum of taxes paid will be much higher than the rate of the tax.
Excise tax is typically imposed in addition to other indirect taxes. It is a one-time charged duty on the sales of specified products, such as alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and petroleum. Depending on a country it can be imposed on other products as well.
Turnover tax is an indirect tax usually counted on the ad valorem basis of the goods. It is paid during or after the manufacture of a product, rather than during sales. 
Equalization tax is applied to situation when a worker, for example, is sent on a foreign assignment and needs to pay different tax than in his home country. Depending on the fiscal policy between countries he might even have to pay double taxes. Tax equalization is the counterbalance for such a situation and is meant to create a situation, in which working abroad is tax neutral for the worker. The employee pays his taxes in the same amounts as in home and all the other effective taxes and equalization to foreign tax is paid by the company.