Rates: specific, ad valorem and combined
Next classification is based on how are the tax rates applied on the good crossing the border. There are three kinds of tax rates that can be distinguished: specific, ad valorem and combined.
Specific duties are counted as a fixed or specified amount of money per unit of weight, volume, gauge or other indicator of quantity. So for each given unit of measure a set amount of money is paid, 
In case of specific duties, product costs or prices are irrelevant. The duties are constant for the same kind of products. This method works as a very effective protection against import of cheap, usually lower quality, goods. It happens so, because of reverse relationship between product value and duty percentage. With the price rising, the duty showed as a percentage of this price will fall. Accordingly, if the price is lower, the duty percentage will rise. It is typical for fungible goods like crude oil or wheat.
Ad valorem (from Latin according to value) tariffs are the opposite of specific since ad valorem duty is counted as a fixed percentage of the invoice value of product and is later applied to the dutiable value of the imported goods. In this method there is direct relationship between the price and duty paid in this case. Along with the increases and decreases of the price of the product, the absolute amount of duties paid will change accordingly. This method provides a continuous and relative protection against particular product on all levels of prices, and is much more effective, than specific duties, against increases in prices of imports caused by inflation. Ad valorem tariff can be also easily compared between countries and products. It is typical for goods varying in value, like tables, machines and specialized parts.
Combined rates (or compound duty) are a combination of the two earlier mentioned types on a single product. Both specific rate and ad valorem rate are applied to an imported product. Both rates are used together, for example 10 euro per kilo and 5% ad valorem, and depending on a country either both are applied or the one, which produces more revenue.